---
layout: post-daily
title: "Day 169: Back to Life"
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [default, status]
worktime: 17
date: 2021-11-07 19:13 +0200
---

I mean, the definition of *daily* is pretty loose, right? 

Just kidding, I stopped doing these daily posts after I just didn't feel like writing anything. Especially on days where nothing of interest happened. Sounds reasonable, right? Well, I also didn't write a post on days where I felt like writing about something. I just couldn't get over the resistance of writing that had build up over several days of not writing. I also pretty much forgot everything I wanted to write about, so I'm gonna scrap those ideas and revisit them, whenever they cross my mind again.

For now, I want to focus on writing posts, whenever I feel the need to write about something. So no forced daily posts anymore, but some force behind posts I wanted to write, but my lazy ass didn't want to open the notepad for. Let's see how this mode of operation for these entries goes.

There is also a distinct lack of larger blog posts even after my website re-design. I currently just don't have any topics I want to write about in length and I'd like to do at least some research before writing a posts. We'll see when I'll have a decent idea and some research for a new post.

Also the last few weeks have been somewhat... uneventful, but in a bad way. Somehow I wasn't motivated to do anything and so I sat around at home the entire day. I feel like I deteriorated in every way possible: physically by not doing any sport and eating out of boredom rather than hunger, mentally by not socializing much with people and being an unhealthy amount of time inside my head. So many beautiful, sunny autumn days wasted... 🍂

I also kinda need a good plan for my working on my thesis, otherwise I will not get anywhere with this.

I guess it's time to tackle life again and work on myself more. I feel like I made a lot of progress regarding my mental health over this year and I kinda lost track of this these last few weeks. So, it's time to get back on track and into my life again 😁

Ash
