---
layout: post-daily
title: "Day 168: Guilt-Free Spending"
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [default, thought]
worktime: 0
date: 2021-11-02 13:20 +0200
---

For me personally, there is a lot of guilt involved when it comes to money. I don't mind spending money for my daily life, for going out with friends, or anything else that, on an individual basis, is not expensive or involves spending time with others. However, when it comes to spending more money on myself, I tend to feel guilty.

Buying more expensive stuff for any of my hobbies or for any kind of experience feels wrong to me, even though these things bring me great joy. For this very reason, I started to set aside a portion of my income into what I call my *Wishlist Account*.

I use this money for whatever I currently feel like buying and it really helped me with not feeling so guilty for spending money anymore. Now that I've written this out, it sounds so much like a *First World Problem* kinda thing 🤔

Anyway, last week I travelled to Austria for a day for work-related reasons. Because it was for work, everything was paid for by the company I work at. Even though it wasn't an actual vacation, it just felt great to travel without thinking about all the money that is being spend. 

For this very reason, I decided to set aside another portion of my income for travelling and in general for experiencing things. So when I feel like doing a weekend trip into the mountains, I can just do that without thinking about how I'm going to survive the rest of the month.

To be honest, I just want to get to the point, where I can do whatever the fuck I want whenever I feel like it. That's the dream 😁

Ash
