---
layout: post-daily
title: 'Day 149: Week 21'
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [recap, status]
worktime: 21
date: 2021-09-27 20:31 +0200
---
## Recap of Week 21

- ✅ **Thesis** start working on the thesis

## Focus of Week 22

- **Thesis** finish todos for this week and setup the thesis document
- **Website** design the combined thelifeofash.com website

Yay, I actually started working on my thesis this week!! What an accomplishment 😁

I guess the *soft deadline* actually worked its wonders. I also have a fixed weekly meeting now with my supervisor regardless of the actual progress of my thesis. So even if there is very little to discuss, there will be a meeting. Even if my progress each week is very small, in the long run it will add up and take off a large portion of the workload that I will inevitably have to put into the thesis near the actual deadline. 

I have a few things I have to finish until my next meeting. Also, I want to setup the document, where I'm going to be writing the thesis. Just a basic working setup with a few bullet points in it for the moment.

Other than working on my thesis, I want to finish the design of my new blog. Not the implementation itself, but just the idea of how it's supposed to look like in the end. I feel like this is gonna be the hardest part of it all. I'm pretty confident that I'm gonna be able to implement the design once it is final, however, designing something out of thin air according to my own specifications is something I usually struggle with. Even more of an incentive for myself to be doing this properly &mdash; there is a lot for me to learn from here 😁

Ash
