---
layout: post-daily
title: 'Day 24: Week 3'
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [recap, status]
worktime: 30
date: 2021-05-24 10:39 +0200
---
## Recap of Week 3

- ❌ **University** focus on watching lectures and working on university assignments; this time for real tho
- ✅ **Blog** finish blog post on my April challenge and publish it

## Plan for Week 4

- **University** do I actually dare to put this here after failing it twice? Hell yeah!
- **Music** I am going to commit to practicing and making music every day!

Yeah I know, another week, another week closer to exams without doing anything. I promise this week will be different. I'll start with working on university stuff right after this post! 

To more positive news: I actually finished my blog post about my [Reading Challenge](https://thelifeofash.com/the-big-brain-acquisition/) and published it. Now I just gotta write my next post; the deadline is just two weeks shy of today 😨. Also, I wanted to commit to posting on my blog every first Sunday of the month. That's going to be my fixed deadline!

Lastly, I said in my entry [Day 19]({% post_url daily/2021-05-19-day-19-commitment %}) that I want to commit to something and dedicate a portion of my everyday life to that activity. I remembered that at the beginning of the year I wanted to commit to writing and making music everyday. Well, I've never really stuck to that and kinda forgot that I wanted to do it. Now I feel like the perfect time has come for me to dig my commitement out of its early grave and give it another try. I figured that writing is everyday is already covered by this daily journal, so I only have to make music everyday as an additional acitivity in my life.

So, I'll commit to practicing and making music everday! 🎶

Ash
