---
layout: post-daily
title: 'Day 79: Week 11'
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [recap, status]
worktime: 12
date: 2021-07-19 07:38 +0200
---
## Recap of Week 11

- ✅ **University** start learning for the next exam
- ❌ **Blog** start writing the next blog post

## Focus for Week 12

- **University** finish watching lectures for next exam
- **Blog** start writing the next blog post

I actually managed to start learning for my next exam... Woohoo! I'm slightly behind the schedule I defined in [Day 75]({% post_url daily/2021-07-14-day-75-making-a-plan %}), but not too much, so I should be good.

I did not start writing my next blog post. Somehow, I totally forgot that I wanted to do that and didn't plan in any time for it. Only today, when I thought about my weekly recap, I realized that I forgot it. I should probably write these focus points down on a piece of paper and pin it next to my computer screen 🤔

Anyway, for next week I will finish the watching the lectures for my next exam. I feel like this should be doable, as there I already am finished with half of the lecture videos.

I will not forget about my blog post and actually start writing some bullet points for the topics I want to cover. Currently, I feel like this next post is not gonna be a very long one, because I already covered a lot of the topics concerning yoga in the meditation post. I'm not sure if I want to continue to write about my 30 challenges on my main blog, as the topics start to be less and less important to my life. I just don't want to write a lengthy post about something I'm not very passionate about.

We'll see.

Ash