---
layout: post-daily
title: 'Day 135: Week 19'
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [recap, status]
worktime: 16
date: 2021-09-12 21:50 +0200
---
## Recap of Week 19

- ❌ **Thesis** start working on the thesis
- ❌ **Blog** think about a topic for the upcoming blog post

## Focus of Week 20

- **Thesis** start working on the thesis

So, what is up with this blog post I want to write since 3 or 4 months and still didn't start? Well, I just don't feel like writing one right now, so I'm not gonna do it. 

Currently, I enjoy writing these short entries everyday about the interesting and the mundane things inside my head. I don't want to take away from this enjoyment by forcing myself to write about something I don't really want to write about. I don't have any big topics in my head that are coherent enough to make a full-blown blog post about; neither do I currently want to spend the time to put these thoughts into words. So, I decided not to write a post, until I finally have a topic and the time to spend.

However, I decided something else for my blog. I enjoy writing these little entries every day and I don't want to treat them like a little sideproject seperate from the actual big thing. So, I decided to put my blog and this daily journal together. The focus of the new blog will still be on more coherent and polished posts, but they will come at whatever pace I feel like. However, these little entries will also find a little space on the blog. This way I will have little snack posts between the major ones and my blog doesn't seem so deserted, when I don't want to write anything fancy.

Over the next weeks, I will figure out a first design concept of how this new website will look like and then implement it. This will also get me a little closer to my goal of doing the entire hosting of the website on my own. Until then, you will continue to find the daily entries here.

Oh, and I didn't start my thesis yet, but I will definitely do so next week!! 😬

Ash
