---
layout: post-daily
title: 'Day 114: Week 16'
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [recap, status]
worktime: 30
date: 2021-08-22 21:15 +0200
---
## Recap of Week 16

- ❌ **Blog** and another round of finishing this goddamn blog post 🥴
- 🔶 **Morning Routine** start doing yoga before work in the morning

## Focus for Week 17

- **Morning Routine** do yoga before work in the morning

I didn't write the blog post about my yoga challenge this week either and I probably won't for some time. I decided against forcing myself on writing about something that I don't feel like writing about. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the challenge, but I don't really feel like writing about it right now. I'd rather write about other things 🤔

However, I want to actually establish a fixed date for new blog posts. I wanted to commit to publishing one post every first Sunday of the month, but somehow didn't manage to pull that off more than once. And so I will, once again, commit to writing and publishing one post every month. The next post will probably be an update post with infos about my newsletter, this daily journal and the info when new blog posts will be released.

As for the morning routine of doing yoga before work: I somewhat managed to do this, although not consistently. I did yoga on 3 out of the 5 workdays and so I got a pretty good start, but I want to get that number to 5 of 5 next week. I just have to get accustomed to waking up early. I mean, how hard can this be, right? 🤔

Lastly, I wanted to talk about the sideproject I wanted to tackle. Initially, the idea was to set a project and finish it before the next semester of university starts in mid October. However, I just realized that I will be starting my master's thesis on September 1st, so I won't have much time over for doing a sideproject. Still, I want to set this sideproject in stone and start working on it, whenever I have the time and the motivation to do so.

The project will be reworking [my main blog](https://thelifeofash.com) by redesigning the website myself and also hosting the website on a server of my own. The first part involves moving away from using wordpress and writing the code of the website myself. For this I will use the blog design experience I gathered here on my daily journal. Writing the website myself will give me more insight on how web development works in general and also drastically improve my coding abilities. 

The website redesign will also involve an overhaul of the look of the website. I want to strike a balance between the minimalistic look of this daily journal, where the focus is on the content of each post rather than distracting side panels, and a modern feel. I like the look of this daily journal for the purpose that it fulfills, however, I don't think that this is an adequate look for my main blog.

The second part involves hosting the content of my main blog, and as a result also of this daily journal, on a home server that I setup myself. For this I will get a Raspberry Pi and set it up such that everyone can access the website over my home network. This will give me more control over how the server operates and also improve my ability to work with Linux, webservers and networking.

I'm already excited to start working on this 😁

Ash
