---
layout: post-daily
title: 'Day 172: Hybrid Moments 🎶'
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [favorite, personal]
worktime: 21
date: 2021-11-17 20:26
---

I tend to be inside my head a lot, and as such I tend to forget to just enjoy life from time to time. Just going out and watching the sunrise in the morning or sunset in the evening; enjoying the smell of a fresh cup of coffee or tea before chugging it down; or just enjoying some fresh beats, while walking somewhere.

Sometimes I'm just in a rut mentally and none of this seems to be enjoyable for me; dishes tend to pile up in the kitchen and my clothes pile up on the ~~dedicated clothes~~ guest chair; and I sit in front of my PC and just watch endless hours of content on YouTube, Netflix and the like.

Then a random newsletter tells me that I should make my bed in the morning, just to have a small victory after waking up. *If nothing else, you'll have this one victory for that day, but usually it will snowball into more and more small victories that will make your day*, says the newsletter.

Well, do I have anything lose? 

I get up in the morning, think about that one victory I will have in my bag, put one hand on each end of the blanket and lift it up... and I just laugh. One small, fucking victory, what am I even doing here. I cringe a little, laugh, and continue to make my bed.

It doesn't matter if it was the small victory of making my bed or laughing in the morning about how stupid the situation was, I felt better, and suddenly the coffee smelled a little stronger and the beats were even fresher than usually.

I guess that's life for you 😁

Music tip: Hybrid Moments (Cover) by *Rise Against* 🎶

Ash
