---
layout: post-daily
title: 'Days 122 & 123: Destiny'
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [favorite, thought]
worktime: 37
date: 2021-08-31 22:32 +0200
---
I'm not exactly sure why, but I've been thinking about the concept of destiny a lot lately. No idea where this thought came from, but suddenly I was debating about whether or not something like destiny exists &mdash; or more precisely, whether or not someone is destined to do something. I am of the opinion that destiny does not exist in our world.

Alright, now this is where I should be throwing my rocksolid arguments down and discussing why I don't believe in destiny. Well, I did start to formulate one of my arguments out, only to realize that this argument had more holes in it than swiss cheese. Oh well, I guess I have to think more deeply about this topic.

Now that I think about it, I wonder whether this topic can actually be discussed. Both destiny and my autonomic view are somewhat undebatable. They require a certain set view on how life works from which any occurence in ones life can be explained pretty easily. As an example: if you believe that life is a random mess of events, then it makes sense not to believe in destiny and any occurence in daily life and any milestone you reach can be attributed to complete randomness. On the other hand, someone who believes they were put on this world with a purpose will probably believe in destiny and attribute these same occurences and milestones in life to it. 

However, I think that there is more to these two views than just explanations of how someone got somewhere in life. Although, I think I'll try to formulate any further thoughts a little out and maybe write a more in-depth blog post about this topic. I have some more arguments in my head, but I'd like to put them into words in a way that they actually represent my viewpoint, instead of just throwing shit on the wall and hoping that it sticks.

Anyway, I'll go to sleep now 😴  

Ash
