---
layout: post-daily
title: "Day 181: Living in Your Head"
author: Ash
categories: daily
tags: [default, personal]
worktime: 18
date: 2022-04-18 22:48 
---

I tend to live my life inside of my head. Instead of taking action and doing what I set out to do, I imagine how it could go; I go through all possible scenarios, and at the end I'm too exhausted to make these imaginations come true.

An example: since I started to play bass, I wanted to play in a band. At first, I had the brilliant excuse of actually not being able to play the instrument. Later on, I put it off until I had more time, because work and university consumed most of my time. Now, I have the time, but day after day I keep putting it off. Instead, since the beginning of me playing until now, I imagine how I stand on a stage and play all my favorite songs. Also, since I looked up some bands that are actively searching for a bassist, I imagine all kinds of scenarios with band practice. How I'm an imposter and play bad, how I play good stuff and everything goes well, how I get rejected from the band. Everything inside of my head.

I think that I need to get out of my head and stop dreaming about the things I want in life. Rather, I should take action and try to make them come true. I shouldn't be dreaming about playing on a stage with a big crowd. I should be actively chasing that dream and keep on practicing and -- more importantly -- write those damn bands and get to play in one.

Time to get out of my head and into my life.

Ash
